Data Entry Support with HTML (#5538)
section-engineering-education/engineering-education: content/articles/data-entry-support-with-html/index.md

### Data Entry Support with HTML

> 

Reviewer: Your introduction, key takeaways, and prerequisites should come before the table of contents.
arrange them in this order:
- Introduction
- Key takeaways
- Prerequisites
- Table of contents

Some of the shape advent advantages in statistics access include -

* Brand Building
Online data entry markets a brand because it makes use of colors, fonts, snapshots, and symbols which are aye-catching in your internet site. The background of your internet site must replicate your brand. It will similarly improve your brand's online presence, specifically if your brand is easily understandable.

* Targeted Notifications
When you have the proper and accurate information, automated alerts can be quite useful. Instead of sending every consumer with all of the communications, the forms can be sent focusing on a certain segment of the audience with a certain message. 

* Integration of Apps Helps Examine Leads
Customers' data entered in a request to receive an e-book or a newsletter can be quite beneficial to you. If your customized forms interact with other parties' programs, they will be immediately populated with information from the forms' input fields. The time saved by not manually inputting data can be used to evaluate and assist clients.

* Avoid Unnecessary Data

> The majority of website guests do not want to provide companies with any extra information. They must believe that they are receiving something in exchange for the information they are sharing. Websites can utilize survey testing to identify which forms are effective and make adjustments to the forms based on the results.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The majority of website guests do not want to provide companies with any extra information. Websites can utilize survey testing to identify which forms are effective and make adjustments to the forms based on the results.

```

* Automatic Collection of Data
 Rather than manually inputting information into databases, the operation can be simply automated by sending information from forms to databases. This greatly decreases data input errors, and you can be sure in the accuracy of your data because the formatting and spelling do not vary.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 Rather than manually inputting information into databases, the operation can be simply automated by sending information from forms to databases. This greatly decreases data input errors.

Below is how to create a data entry sheet with Google Apps Script.
**Step One:** Login into your [Google Drive account](https://drive.google.com/drive/my-drive).
A Google Account is a necessity to use this service, so register for one on that site if you don't have one.

**Step Two:** After logging in to Google Drive, there is a New button on the top left of the page. Click on it and choose the Google sheet alternative and Blank Spreadsheet option.

**Step Three:** Give your sheet an appropriate name. After giving it a name, a link is created in the Drive.

### Creating the HTML Form
Controls are specific components found in forms like entry boxes, checkboxes, radio buttons, pushbuttons, etc. The form is usually filled out by altering its controls, such as inputting text, choosing items, and sending it to an internet host for processing.
An HTML form is generated using the `<form>` element. Here's a sample of a basic sign up form:
```html
<form>
    <label>Name: <input type="text"></label>
    <label>Secret Code: <input type="password"></label>
    <input type="submit" value="ENTER">
</form>
```

### Sending form to Google Sheets

> Google Forms may be utilized as an application by going to the responses button and reading all responses. Whenever you're gathering a bunch of data from some individuals, though, you should put it all in a spreadsheet so you can organize and evaluate it later.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Google Forms may be utilized as an application by going to the responses button and reading all responses. Whenever you're gathering data, you should put them in a spreadsheet so you can organize and evaluate it later.
```

> It takes a long time to transfer information from Google Forms to Google Sheets manually. Alternatively, you may automate data transmission by connecting Google Forms to Google Sheets. It implies that when a respondent uploads a form, the data will display in the spreadsheet 
> simultaneously. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It takes a long time to transfer information from Google Forms to Google Sheets manually. Alternatively, you can automate data transmission by connecting Google Forms to Google Sheets. It implies that when a respondent uploads a form, the data will display in the spreadsheet. 
```

> ### Data Entry Support with HTML

Reviewer: ### Data Entry Support with HTML

> ### Data Entry Support with HTML

Author: Noted

An HTML form is generated using the `<form>` element. Here's a sample of a basic sign up form:
```html
<form>
    <label>Name: <input type="text"></label>
    <label>Secret Code: <input type="password"></label>
    <input type="submit" value="ENTER">
</form>
```

### Sending form to Google Sheets
Google Forms may be utilized as an application by going to the responses button and reading all responses. Whenever you're gathering a bunch of data from some individuals, though, you should put it all in a spreadsheet so you can organize and evaluate it later.
It takes a long time to transfer information from Google Forms to Google Sheets manually. Alternatively, you may automate data transmission by connecting Google Forms to Google Sheets. It implies that when a respondent uploads a form, the data will display in the spreadsheet 
simultaneously. 

Follow the procedure below to send the form you created to Google Spreadsheet. It can be either a brand-new or already created spreadsheet.
1. Select the `response` option in the selected form.

> 2. Besides the Google Sheets symbol, select the dots box. Pick Response Location from the drop-down menu.

Reviewer: Besides the Google Sheets symbol, select the dots box. Pick Response Location from the drop-down menu

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Besides the Google Sheets symbol, select the dots box and click on " **Pick Response Location** " from the drop-down menu.
```

Reviewer: Provide a screenshot of this.

> 3. You may choose where your reply will go from here. You have two options: creating a blank spreadsheet or selecting an already made one.

Reviewer: 3. You may choose where your reply will go from here. You have two options: creating a blank spreadsheet or selecting an already made one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. You can choose where your reply should be saved. You have two options: Create a blank spreadsheet or select an existing already one.
```

4. To see if Google Forms and the spreadsheet have correctly linked, tap the Google Sheets button, which directs you straight to your spreadsheet containing the form replies.

### Deploying a script as a web app

> To convert Google scripts to web apps, Google App Script is used to perform this operation. The following procedures must be undertaken to convert a script into a web app.

Reviewer: To convert Google scripts to web apps, Google App Script is used to perform this operation. The following procedures must be undertaken to convert a script into a web app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To convert Google scripts to web apps, **Google App Script** is used to perform this operation. The following procedures must be followed to convert a script into a web app.
```

* Pick the file and manage versions by creating a new version and saving it. 
* Choose the Publish option, then deploy it as a web app from the drop-down menu.
* Click on the file you previously saved beneath the Project version.
* Choose whose permission with which the app should run under, as your user account or the account of the other users accessing the web app.
* Select who needs to be accredited to have access to the app. 

> * Tap the Deploy button for the operation to be performed.

Reviewer: Use an ordered list here, rather than unordered.

Users may execute Google Apps Scripts straight from the browsers if they post them as a web app. For example, an already uploaded Google Form file may publish the script as an open web app, allowing individuals to submit files to your Google Drive without logging into their Google accounts.

A user may select whoever has permission to access the web app after the Google Apps Script has been deployed as a web app. The following are the kinds of permissions used. 
1. User only: The script creator is the only one who has permission to access the web.
2. Domain users: The web app is simply accessible to individuals within the Google Apps domain.
3. Everyone: Anyone has access to and can use the web app. However, the user must first sign in with their Google account.
4. The last kind of permission allows the web app to be accessed by anybody, even unknown people who do not own a Google account.

> ### Conclusion

Reviewer: At the end of your conclusion, add another section "Further reading" and provide links of related articles for your readers.

3. Everyone: Anyone has access to and can use the web app. However, the user must first sign in with their Google account.
4. The last kind of permission allows the web app to be accessed by anybody, even unknown people who do not own a Google account.

### Conclusion
HTML can be utilized in various forms of data entry. It lessens the work done by developers who want to obtain a wide range of information at a time. 
In addition, google services have made it easier to create and deploy web forms using Google Apps Scripts and its ability to serve a range of people at once according to developers' preferences.

### Further reading

> For your further learning you can go through:

Author: Done
